Senior Applications Developer
Develop advanced applications, enhancements, and system interfaces with 
responsibility for the full software development life cycle utilizing a broad 
understanding of client systems and business processes for the King County 
Department of Executive Services.
OPENING DATE/TIME: 05/04/17 12:00 AM (GMT -8:00) 
CLOSING DATE/TIME: 06/19/17 11:59 PM (GMT -8:00) 

SALARY: Not Displayed 
LOCATION: Chinook Building - 401 5th Ave, Seattle 
JOB TYPE: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week 
DIVISION: Department of Executive Services - Business Resource Center 
JOB NUMBER: 2017RJ06912 
SUMMARY: 
 POSITION TITLE:  Senior Applications Developer
 
POSITION DUTIES:  Develop advanced applications, enhancements, and system 
interfaces with responsibility for the full software development life cycle 
utilizing a broad understanding of client systems and business processes. 
Provide support to multiple applications and systems and work on major, critical 
or complex development projects. Develop and support applications for highly 
complex systems requiring a thorough analysis of the business processes that 
these systems support. Maintain and support software systems requiring complex 
application modifications and enhancements, and maintain and modify mainframe, 
client-server, or web-based applications. Respond to software system failures 
and analyze and resolve underlying problems. Provide technically advanced client 
data support, including producing custom reports, downloading files, and other 
projects. Evaluate existing applications for process efficiency, system 
integrity, security and data quality, and redesign and replace selected 
application sub-systems as needed. May perform other duties as assigned.
 
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:       
 
Bachelor's degree in computer science, computer applications, or a closely 
related technical field of study, or the foreign degree equivalent*;
 
Five years of professional work experience designing, developing and 
implementing software applications using Oracle databases and tools, including:
o 5 years utilizing Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies, 
standards and procedures.
o 5 years developing end to end system integration design using Service Oriented 
Architecture, customizations and reports for enterprise business systems.
o 4 years  utilizing Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle SOA Suite, Oracle EBS OA 
Framework, and Oracle Workflow.
o 3 years utilizing Oracle BPEL, Java, XML, and SOAP web Services.
o 5 years utilizing TML, XHTM, SQL, PL/SQL, and shell script.
o 5 years utilizing Oracle EBS Business Cycle: Procure to Pay, Order to Cash, 
Accounts Receivables, Project Accounting, General Ledger, Purchasing, 
iProcurement, Order Management, BOM, Advanced Pricing, Costing, Inventory, and 
AR Dunning Letters.
o 4 years working with WebLogic and Oracle Enterprise Manager.
o 5 years  utilizing JDeveloper, BI Publisher 11g, SQL Developer, User 
Productivity Kits (UPK's), Oracle Discoverer 11g, Toad, XML editor such as XML 
Spy, SOAP UI, Putty, MS Visio, and SVN.
o 5 years utilizing data structures and Entity Relationship (ER) diagramming.
o 5 years working with UNIX/LINUX Operating Systems.
o 5 years working on ERP upgrade project and EBS technical patch analysis.
o 5 years utilizing a requirements-driven Waterfall Software Development 
Methodology such as Oracle AIM.
o 5 years working Oracle Open interfaces and API's to develop interface and 
conversion programs.
o 5 years working on HP Quality Center and Kintana for tracking issues while 
testing the end to end process.
o 5 years of experience at all stages of project lifecycle, from business 
requirements and technical definitions to development, testing, user acceptance 
testing (UAT), and production support.
o 5 years of experience participating in business and functional requirements 
gathering and translating the requirements into technology solutions.
 
*In lieu of a Bachelor's degree, the employer will accept an additional two 
years of professional work experience designing, developing, and implementing 
software applications using Oracle databases and tools.
 
LOCATION OF
EMPLOYMENT:               40 hours/week; in Seattle, WA.
 
SEND
APPLICATION TO:           King County, Dept. of Executive Services
                                          James Fournier, Compensation & 
Employment Services Manager
                                          500 4th Avenue, Room 553
                                          Seattle, WA 98104 
