Web and Database Developer

Denali Advanced Integration is one of the nation’s leading technology integrators by 
volume and capacity with experience in Data Center, Unified Communication’s, 
Mobility and Virtualization. Denali has more than 400 dedicated employees focused 
on design, architecture, implementation and operations. From Client End Devices to 
the Cloud, Denali provides service to retail, healthcare, industrial and government 
environments both domestically and abroad. 
 
We are seeking a Senior .Net Developer who can independently build a web-based 
application and the BI reports around it. This includes front, middle and back-end 
development, SSRS and SSIS. This is an ongoing contract engagement. 
 
 
ESSENTIAL DUTIES:  
 
Requirements gathering and analysis, system design and specification, build, 
prototype, unit testing, integrated testing, validation and verification, installing, 
configuration, customization, troubleshooting, training of users and new 
applications, modification and support across the enterprise. 
Design new solutions or fixes to enhance existing applications using web-enabled 
development programs using .Net 4.5, C#, ASP.Net, HTML, CSHTML, JavaScript, and 
similar or other web services and service oriented tools. 
Design and build relational databases using Microsoft SQL Server including 
performance tuning and database backup/recovery. 
Develop web site and web plug-in tools, databases, queries and SSRS reports. 
Maintain and evolve the External and Internal Portals, and similar applications. 
Support users on existing applications. 
 
 
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
Proficiency in .NET Framework version 4.5, Web Technologies and IIS 
Proficiency in OOP, Design Patterns, main Data Structures, Enterprise level Web and 
Windows applications using SQL Server, Oracle or other high performance DBMS. 
SQL Technologies: Transnational level SQL (including stored procedures, views and 
indexes, and performance optimization). 
Demonstrated knowledge of creating reports using SSRS. 
Experience with SSIS is a plus. 
Strong skills in database application development including working knowledge of 
data design and development with Microsoft SQL Server DBMS system. 
Development and SDLC tools: Visual Studio, TFS, SQL Server Management Studio, 
SVN, YouTrack or similar tools or Proven technical leadership skills. 
Proven experience developing appropriate systems and metrics for measuring 
progress, backlogs, workloads, staffing, and other project resources. 
Knowledge of how to architect and design a new application and integrate multiple 
applications and databases for consumption by internal and external customers. 
Extensive experience building Enterprise level Web/Windows applications, testing 
and integration. 
Knowledge of Windows-based web server administration is a plus. 
Must be able to work independent with minimum supervision. 
Must be able to communicate in writing and verbally all projects progress. 
Experience in the mortgage, banking, or finance industries a plus. 
 
This is an onsite role - local candidates are highly desired and will be given first 
preference.
